again the word of the Lord came to me
son of man calls Jerusalem to know her
abominations and say thus says the Lord
God to Jerusalem your birth and your
nativity are from the land of Canaan
your father was an amirite and your
mother a hittite as for your nativity on
the day you were born your navel cord
was not cut nor were you washed in water
to cleanse you
you were not rubbed with salt nor
wrapped in swaddling clothes no I pity
you to do any of these things for you to
have compassion on you but you were
thrown out into the open field when you
yourself were loathed on the day you
were born
and when I passed by you and saw you
struggling in your own blood I said to
you in your blood live yes I said to you
in your blood live I made you thrive
like a plant in the field and you grew
matured and became very beautiful your
breasts were formed your hair grew but
you were naked and bad
when I passed by you again and looked
upon you indeed your time was the time
of love so I spread my wing over you and
covered your nakedness yes I swore an
oath to you and entered into a covenant
with you and you became mine then I
washed you in water yes I thoroughly
washed off your blood and I anointed you
with oil i clothed you an embroidered
cloth and gave you sandals of badger
skin i clothed you with fine linen and
covered you with silk i adorn You with
ornaments put bracelets on your wrists
and a chain on your neck and I put a
jewel in your nose earrings in your ears
and a beautiful crown on your head thus
you were adorned with gold and silver
and your clothing was a fine linen silk
and embroidered cloth you ate pastry of
fine flour honey and oil you were
exceedingly beautiful and succeeded to
royalty your fame went out among the
nations because of your beauty for it
was perfect
through my splendor which I had bestowed
on you but you trusted in your own
beauty played the harlot because of your
fame and poured out your harlotry on
everyone passing by who would have it
you took some of your garments and
adorned multi-coloured high places for
yourself and played the harlot on
such things should not happen nor be you
have also taken your beautiful jewelry
from my gold and my silver which I had
given you and made for yourself
male images and played the harlot with
them you took your embroidered garments
and covered them and you set my oil and
my incense before them also my food
which I gave him the pastry of fine
flour oil and honey which I fed you you
set it before them a sweet incense and
so it was moreover you took your sons
and your daughters whom you bought me
and these you sacrifice to them to be
devolved were your acts of harlotry a
small matter that you have slain my
children and offered them up to them by
causing them to pass through the fire
and in all your abominations and acts of
harlotry you did not remember the days
of your youth when you were naked and
bare struggling in your blood then it
was so after all your wickedness world
woe to you says the Lord God that you
also built for yourself a shrine and
made a high place for yourself in every
street you built your high places at the
head of every road and made your beauty
before you offered yourself to everyone
who passed by and multiplied your acts
of harlotry you also committed harlotry
with the Egyptians
you're very fleshly neighbors and
increased your acts of harlotry to
provoke me to anger behold therefore I
stretched out my hand against you
diminished your allotment and gave you
up to the will of those who hate you the
daughters of the Philistines
who were ashamed of your lewd behavior
you also played the harlot with the
Assyrians because you were insatiable
indeed you played the harlot with them
and still were not satisfied moreover
you multiplied your acts of harlotry as
far as the land of the trader Chaldea
and even then you were not satisfied how
degenerate is your heart says the Lord
God seeing you do all these things the
deeds of a brazen harlot you erected
your shrine at the head of every road
and built your high place in every
street yet you were not like a harlot
because you scorned payment you are an
adulterous wife who takes strangers
instead of her husband men make payments
to all harlots but you made your
payments to all your lovers and hired
them to come to you from all around for
your hollow tree you are the opposite of
other women in your harlotry because no
one solicited you to be a harlot in that
you gave payment but no payment was
given you therefore you are the opposite
now then o harlot hear the word of the
Lord thus says the Lord God
because your filthiness was poured out
and your nakedness uncovered in your
harlotry with your lovers and with all
your abominable idols and because of the
blood of your children which you gave to
them surely therefore I will gather all
your lovers with whom you took pleasure
all those you loved and all those you
hated I will gather them from all around
against you and will uncover your
nakedness to them that they may see all
your nakedness and I will judge you as
women who break wedlock or shed blood
are judged I will bring blood upon you
in fury and jealousy I will also give
you into their hand and they shall throw
down your shrines and break down your
high places they shall also strip you of
your clothes take your beautiful jewelry
and leave you naked and bare they shall
also bring up an assembly against you
and they shall stone you with stones and
thrust you through with their swords
they shall burn your houses with fire
and execute judgments on you in the
sight of many women and I will make you
cease playing the harlot and you shall
no longer hire lovers so I will lay to
rest my fury toward you and my jealousy
shall depart from you I will be quiet
and be angry no more because you did not
remember the days of your youth but
agitated me with all these things surely
I will also recompense your deeds on
your own
and you shall not commit lewdness in
addition to all your abominations indeed
everyone who quotes Proverbs will use
this proverb against you like mother
like daughter you are your mother's
daughter loathing husband and children
and you are the sister of your sisters
who load their husbands and children
your mother was a hittite and your
father and amirite your elder sister is
samaria who dwells with her daughters to
the north of you and your younger sister
who dwells to the south of you is sodom
and her daughters you did not walk in
their ways nor act according to their
abominations but as if that were too
little you became more corrupt than they
in all your ways as I live says the Lord
God neither your sister Sodom nor her
daughters have done as you and your
daughters have done look this was the
iniquity of your sister Sodom she and
her daughter had pride fullness of food
and abundance of idleness neither did
she strengthen the hand of the poor and
needy and they were haughty and
committed abomination before me
therefore I took them away as I saw fit
samaria did not commit half of your sins
but you have multiplied your
abominations more than they and have
justified your sisters by all the
abominations which you have done you who
judged your sisters bear your own shame
also because the sins which you
committed were more abominable than
theirs they are more righteous than you
yes be disgraced also and bear your own
shame because you justified your
sister's when I bring back their
captives the captives of Sodom and her
daughters and the captives of Samaria
and her daughters then I will also bring
back the captives of your captivity
among them that you may bear your own
shame and be disgraced by all that you
did when you comforted them when your
sisters Sodom and her daughters returned
to their former state and Samaria and
her daughters returned to their former
state then you and your daughters will
return to your former state for your
sister Sodom was not a byword in your
mouth in the days of your pride before
your wickedness was uncovered it was
like the time of the reproach of the
daughters of Syria and all those around
her and of the daughters of the
Philistines who despised you everywhere
you have paid for your lewdness and your
abominations says the Lord for thus says
the Lord God I will deal with you as you
have done who despised the oath by
breaking the Covenant nevertheless I
will remember my covenant with you in
the days of your youth and I will
establish an everlasting covenant with
you then you will remember your ways and
be ashamed when you receive your older
and your younger sisters for I will give
them to you for daughters but not
because of my covenant with you and I
will establish my covenant with you then
you shall know that I am the Lord that
you may remember and be ashamed and
never open your mouth any more because
of your shame when I provide you an
atonement for all you have done says the
Lord God